[develop]: Update ConfigWorkflow chapter to HEAD of develop (#915)
ufs-community/ufs-srweather-app: docs/UsersGuide/source/CustomizingTheWorkflow/ConfigWorkflow.rst

``NCORES_PER_NODE``: (Default: "")
   The number of cores available per node on the compute platform. Set for supported platforms in ``setup.py``, but it is now also configurable for all platforms.

> ``TASKTHROTTLE``: (Default: 1000)

Reviewer: This is my first time noticing `TASKTHROTTLE`; is this actually used in the workflow? I don't see it being used anywhere. From looking at the history it was "introduced" in #508 but it doesn't actually have any functionality. Should probably be removed.

Author: Not sure. Sounds like it's supposed to be used on Mac/Linux machines, but it seems like if someone sets it in their config.yaml or directly in the mac/linux machine file, it won't actually modify the `taskthrottle` portion of `default_workflow.yaml`... 
@christinaholtNOAA Any idea if `TASKTHROTTLE` in config_defaults is ultimately supposed to configure the `taskthrottle` in the default wflow?
Or maybe @danielabdi-noaa would know, since he added it? Looks like the place in `parm/FV3LAM_wflow.xml` where it used to get set isn't there anymore.

Author: Added this to Issue #922.

``QUEUE_FCST``: (Default: "")
   The task that runs a forecast is submitted to this queue, or QOS (QOS is Slurm's term for queue; it stands for "Quality of Service"). If this variable is not set or set to an empty string, it will be (re)set to a machine-dependent value. Options are machine-dependent and include: ``""`` | ``"batch"`` | ``"dev"`` | ``"normal"`` | ``"regular"`` | ``"workq"``

``REMOVE_MEMORY``: (Default: False)
  Boolean flag that determines whether to remove the memory flag for the Rocoto XML. Some platforms are not configured to accept the memory flag, so it must not be included in the XML. Valid values: ``True`` | ``False``

Parameters for Running Without a Workflow Manager
-----------------------------------------------------
These settings define platform-specific run commands. Users should set run commands for platforms without a workflow manager. These values will be ignored unless ``WORKFLOW_MANAGER: "none"``.

``RUN_CMD_UTILS``: (Default: "")

>    The run command for MPI-enabled pre-processing utilities (e.g., ``shave``, ``orog``, ``sfc_climo_gen``). This can be left blank for smaller domains, in which case the executables will run without :term:`MPI`. Users may need to use a non-default command for launching an MPI-enabled executable depending on their machine and MPI installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The run command for MPI-enabled pre-processing utilities (e.g., ``shave``, ``orog``, ``sfc_climo_gen``). This can be left blank for smaller domains, in which case the executables will run without :term:`MPI`. Users may need to use an ``mpirun`` or similar command for launching an MPI-enabled executable depending on their machine and MPI installation.
```

      Do not set this to the same path as other ``*_OBS_DIR`` variables; otherwise unexpected results and data loss may occur.

``NDAS_OBS_DIR``: (Default: ``"{{ workflow.EXPTDIR }}/obs_data/ndas/proc"``)
   User-specified location of top-level directory where :term:`NDAS` prepbufr files used by METplus are located (or, if retrieved by the workflow, where they will be placed). See comments in file ``scripts/exregional_get_verif_obs.sh`` for more details about files and directory structure. 
   
   .. attention:: 
      Do not set this to the same path as other ``*_OBS_DIR`` variables; otherwise unexpected results and data loss may occur.

Other Platform-Specific Directories
--------------------------------------

``DOMAIN_PREGEN_BASEDIR``: (Default: "")
   For use in NCO mode only (``RUN_ENVIR: "nco"``). The base directory containing pregenerated grid, orography, and surface climatology files. This is an alternative for setting ``GRID_DIR``, ``OROG_DIR``, and ``SFC_CLIMO_DIR`` individually. For the pregenerated grid specified by ``PREDEF_GRID_NAME``, these "fixed" files are located in: 

   .. code-block:: console 

      ${DOMAIN_PREGEN_BASEDIR}/${PREDEF_GRID_NAME}

>    The workflow scripts will create a symlink in the experiment directory that will point to a subdirectory (having the same name as the experiment grid) under this directory. This variable should be set to a null string in ``config_defaults.yaml``, but it can be changed in the user-specified workflow configuration file (i.e.,  ``config.yaml``) set by ``EXPT_CONFIG_FN``.

Reviewer: This should be implied I think

```suggestion
   The workflow scripts will create a symlink in the experiment directory that will point to a subdirectory (having the same name as the experiment grid) under this directory.
```

``TEST_VX_FCST_INPUT_BASEDIR``: (Default: "") 
   The path to user-staged forecast files for WE2E testing of verificaton using user-staged forecast files in a known location on a given platform. 

.. _SystemFixedFiles:

Fixed File Directory Parameters
----------------------------------

These parameters are associated with the fixed (i.e., static) files. On `Level 1 & 2 <https://github.com/ufs-community/ufs-srweather-app/wiki/Supported-Platforms-and-Compilers>`__ systems, fixed files are pre-staged with paths defined in the ``setup.py`` script. Because the default values are platform-dependent, they are set to a null string in ``config_defaults.yaml``. Then these null values are overwritten in ``setup.py`` with machine-specific values or with a user-specified value from ``config.yaml``.

``FIXgsm``: (Default: "")
   Path to the system directory containing the majority of fixed (i.e., time-independent) files that are needed to run the FV3-LAM model.

``FIXaer``: (Default: "")

>    Path to the system directory containing :term:`MERRA2` aerosol climatology files.

Reviewer: Since other entries mention when they are optional, this couldn't hurt either

```suggestion
   Path to the system directory containing :term:`MERRA2` aerosol climatology files. Only used if running with a physics suite that uses Thompson microphysics.
```

``FIXlut``: (Default: "")

>    Path to the system directory containing the lookup tables for optics properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Path to the system directory containing the lookup tables for optics properties. Only used if running with a physics suite that uses Thompson microphysics.
```

``FIXorg``: (Default: "")
   Path to the system directory containing static orography data (used by the ``make_orog`` task). Can be the same as ``FIXgsm``.

``FIXsfc``: (Default: "")
   Path to the system directory containing the static surface climatology input fields, used by ``sfc_climo_gen``. These files are only used if the ``MAKE_SFC_CLIMO`` task is meant to run.

``FIXshp``: (Default: "")
   System directory containing the graphics shapefiles. On Level 1 systems, these are set within the machine files. Users on other systems will need to provide the path to the directory that contains the *Natural Earth* shapefiles.

``FIXcrtm``: (Default: "")
   Path to system directory containing CRTM fixed files. 

> ``FIXcrtmupp``: (Default: "")
>   Path to system directory containing CRTM fixed files specifically for UPP.
> 

Reviewer: This one's another mystery variable to me. Seems like it was also added in a PR with no functionality (#643); should probably be removed.

```suggestion
```

Author: @danielabdi-noaa Any reason to leave this in? Looks like it came in as part of a GSI PR and could be removed.

Author: Added this to Issue #922.

.. _Cron:

Cron-Associated Parameters
------------------------------

Cron is a job scheduler accessed through the command-line on UNIX-like operating systems. It is useful for automating tasks such as the ``rocotorun`` command, which launches each workflow task in the SRW App. Cron periodically checks a cron table (aka crontab) to see if any tasks are ready to execute. If so, it runs them. 

``USE_CRON_TO_RELAUNCH``: (Default: false)
   Flag that determines whether to add a line to the user's cron table, which calls the experiment launch script every ``CRON_RELAUNCH_INTVL_MNTS`` minutes. Valid values: ``True`` | ``False``

``CRON_RELAUNCH_INTVL_MNTS``: (Default: 3)
   The interval (in minutes) between successive calls of the experiment launch script by a cron job to (re)launch the experiment (so that the workflow for the experiment kicks off where it left off). This is used only if ``USE_CRON_TO_RELAUNCH`` is set to true.

``CRONTAB_LINE``: (Default: "")
   The launch command that will appear in the crontab (e.g., ``*/3 * * * * cd <path/to/experiment/subdirectory> && ./launch_FV3LAM_wflow.sh called_from_cron="TRUE"``).

> 

Reviewer: This is another weird one...I don't think it should appear in the users guide because it can't be over-written (it's set automatically in setup.py). We should probably keep a list of these edge cases to address in an issue.

Author: Created Issue #922 for this.

   Name of the Fortran file containing the forecast model's base suite namelist (i.e., the portion of the namelist that is common to all physics suites). By default, it will be named ``input.nml.FV3``. 

``FV3_NML_YAML_CONFIG_FN``: (Default: ``"FV3.input.yml"``)
   Name of the YAML configuration file containing the forecast model's namelist settings for various physics suites.

``FV3_NML_BASE_ENS_FN``: (Default: ``"{{ FV3_NML_FN }}.base_ens"``)
   Name of the Fortran file containing the forecast model's base ensemble namelist (i.e., the original namelist file from which each of the ensemble members' namelist files is generated).

``FV3_EXEC_FN``: (Default: "ufs_model")
   Name to use for the forecast model executable. 

``DATA_TABLE_FN``: ( Default: "data_table")
   Name of the file that contains the data table read in by the forecast model. 

``DIAG_TABLE_FN``: ( Default: "diag_table")
   Prefix for the name of the file that specifies the output fields of the forecast model. 

``FIELD_TABLE_FN``: ( Default: "field_table")
   Prefix for the name of the file that specifies the :term:`tracers <tracer>` that the forecast model will read in from the :term:`IC/LBC <IC/LBCs>` files. 

> ``DIAG_TABLE_TMPL_FN``: (Default: ``'diag_table.{{ CCPP_PHYS_SUITE }}'``)

Reviewer: Since all of these following variables require the same caveat, maybe it can be summarized as a note or a section header?

.. _PredefGrid:

Predefined Grid Parameters
------------------------------

``PREDEF_GRID_NAME``: (Default: "")
   This parameter indicates which (if any) predefined regional grid to use for the experiment. Setting ``PREDEF_GRID_NAME`` provides a convenient method of specifying a commonly used set of grid-dependent parameters. The predefined grid settings can be viewed in the script ``ush/set_predef_grid_params.yaml``. 
   
   **Currently supported options:**
   
   | ``"RRFS_CONUS_25km"``
   | ``"RRFS_CONUS_13km"``
   | ``"RRFS_CONUS_3km"``
   | ``"SUBCONUS_Ind_3km"`` 
   
   **Other valid values include:**

   | ``"AQM_NA_13km"``
   | ``"CONUS_25km_GFDLgrid"`` 
   | ``"CONUS_3km_GFDLgrid"``
   | ``"EMC_AK"`` 
   | ``"EMC_HI"`` 
   | ``"EMC_PR"`` 
   | ``"EMC_GU"`` 
   | ``"GSL_HAFSV0.A_25km"`` 
   | ``"GSL_HAFSV0.A_13km"`` 
   | ``"GSL_HAFSV0.A_3km"`` 

>    | ``"GSD_HRRR_AK_50km"``

Reviewer 2: These grids have been removed as part of PR #871:

- EMC_AK
- EMC_HI
- EMC_PR
- EMC_GU
- GSL_HAFSV0.A_25km
- GSL_HAFSV0.A_13km
- GSL_HAFSV0.A_3km
- GSD_HRRR_AK_50km

Author: Removed

``EXTRN_MDL_LBCS_OFFSET_HRS``: (Default: ``'{{ 3 if EXTRN_MDL_NAME_LBCS == "RAP" else 0 }}'``)
   Users may wish to use lateral boundary conditions from a forecast that was started earlier than the start of the forecast configured here. This variable indicates how many hours earlier the external model started than the forecast configured here. For example, if the forecast should use lateral boundary conditions from a GFS forecast started six hours earlier, then ``EXTRN_MDL_LBCS_OFFSET_HRS: 6``. Note: the default value is model-dependent and is set in ``ush/set_extrn_mdl_params.py``.

``FV3GFS_FILE_FMT_LBCS``: (Default: "nemsio")
   If using the FV3GFS model as the source of the :term:`LBCs` (i.e., if ``EXTRN_MDL_NAME_LBCS: "FV3GFS"``), this variable specifies the format of the model files to use when generating the LBCs. Valid values: ``"nemsio"`` | ``"grib2"`` | ``"netcdf"``

File and Directory Parameters
--------------------------------

> ``EXTRN_MDL_SYSBASEDIR_LBCS``: (Default: '')

Reviewer: This one (and EXTRN_MDL_SYSBASEDIR_ICS) are another interesting case for a potential future issue. While this functionality did exist at one point, it has apparently been removed from all Tier 1 platforms, so now these variables just duplicate the function of `EXTRN_MDL_SOURCE_BASEDIR_LBCS` and `EXTRN_MDL_SOURCE_BASEDIR_ICS` respectively.

I think it's fine to keep this section as is for now but we should probably retire this variable in the future, unless the old functionality can be restored.

Author: Created Issue #922 for this.

Computational Parameters
----------------------------

``LAYOUT_X``: (Default: ``'{{ LAYOUT_X }}'``)
   The number of :term:`MPI` tasks (processes) to use in the x direction of the regional grid when running the forecast model.

``LAYOUT_Y``: (Default: ``'{{ LAYOUT_Y }}'``)
   The number of :term:`MPI` tasks (processes) to use in the y direction of the regional grid when running the forecast model.

``BLOCKSIZE``: (Default: ``'{{ BLOCKSIZE }}'``)
   The amount of data that is passed into the cache at a time.

.. note::

>    In ``config_defaults.yaml`` the computational parameters are set to null strings so that:
> .. COMMENT: Is this still true^ 
> 
>    #. If the experiment is using a predefined grid and the user sets the parameter in the user-specified experiment configuration file (i.e., ``config.yaml``), that value will be used in the forecast(s). Otherwise, the default value for that predefined grid will be used.
>    #. If the experiment is *not* using a predefined grid (i.e., it is using a custom grid whose parameters are specified in the experiment configuration file), then the user must specify a value for the parameter in that configuration file. Otherwise, the parameter will remain set to a null string, and the experiment generation will fail because the generation scripts check to ensure that all the parameters defined in this section are set to non-empty strings before creating the experiment directory.

Reviewer: It's probably fine to remove this section. As you point out it's not strictly true anymore, and it's just overkill information for the users guide

```suggestion
```

   Forecast hour increment for the plotting task. For example, if the user wants plots for each forecast hour, they should set ``PLOT_FCST_INC: 1``. If the user only wants plots for some of the output (e.g., every 6 hours), they should set ``PLOT_FCST_INC: 6``. 
  
``PLOT_FCST_END``: (Default: "")
   The last forecast hour for the plotting task. By default, ``PLOT_FCST_END`` is set to the same value as ``FCST_LEN_HRS``. For example, if a forecast runs for 24 hours, and the user wants plots for each available hour of forecast output, they do not need to set ``PLOT_FCST_END``, and it will automatically be set to 24. If the user only wants plots from the first 12 hours of the forecast, the "last forecast hour" should be 12 (i.e., ``PLOT_FCST_END: 12``).

``PLOT_DOMAINS``: (Default: ["conus"])
   Domains to plot. Currently supported options are ["conus"], ["regional"], or both (i.e., ["conus", "regional"]).

Air Quality Modeling (AQM) Parameters
======================================

> This section includes parameters related to Air Quality Modeling (AQM) tasks. 

Reviewer: AQM isn't supported right? Maybe good to note that again here.

   The accumulation periods (in hours) to consider for accumulated precipitation (APCP). If ``VX_FIELDS`` contains ``"APCP"``, then ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS`` must contain at least one element. If ``VX_FIELDS`` does not contain ``"APCP"``, ``VX_APCP_ACCUMS_HRS`` will be ignored.

``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS``: (Default: [ 6, 24 ])
   The accumulation periods (in hours) to consider for ``ASNOW`` (accumulated snowfall). If ``VX_FIELDS`` contains ``"ASNOW"``, then ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS`` must contain at least one element. If ``VX_FIELDS`` does not contain ``"ASNOW"``, ``VX_ASNOW_ACCUMS_HRS`` will be ignored.

Verification (VX) Directories
------------------------------

``VX_FCST_INPUT_BASEDIR``: (Default: ``'{% if user.RUN_ENVIR == "nco" %}$COMOUT/../..{% else %}{{ workflow.EXPTDIR }}{% endif %}'``)
   Template for top-level directory containing forecast (but not obs) files that will be used as input into METplus for verification.

``VX_OUTPUT_BASEDIR``: (Default: ``'{% if user.RUN_ENVIR == "nco" %}$COMOUT/metout{% else %}{{ workflow.EXPTDIR }}{% endif %}'``)
   Template for top-level directory in which METplus will place its output.

``VX_NDIGITS_ENSMEM_NAMES``: 3

>    Number of digits in the ensember member names. This is a configurable variable to allow users to change its value (e.g., to go from "mem004" to "mem02") when using staged forecast files that do not use the same number of digits as the SRW App.

Reviewer 2: Should both `mem***/**` options use the same value (i.e., `"mem004" to "mem04"` or `"mem002" to "mem02"`)?  If both values should be the same, then this modification should also be made to ush/config_defaults.yaml as well.

Reviewer 2: Nice catch, @gspetro-NOAA!  I didn't even notice `ensember`, rather than `ensemble`!  Resolving conversation now.

   A template for how to name the forecast files for accumulated precipitation (APCP) with greater than 1-hour accumulation (i.e., 3-, 6-, and 24-hour accumulations) after processing by ``PcpCombine``.

``NUM_MISSING_OBS_FILES_MAX``: (Default: 2)
   For verification tasks that need observational data, this specifies the maximum number of observation files that may be missing. If more than this number are missing, the verification task will error out.
   Note that this is a crude way of checking that there are enough observations to conduct verification since this number should probably depend on the field being verified, the time interval between observations, the length of the forecast, etc.  An alternative may be to specify the maximum allowed fraction of observation files that can be missing (i.e., the number missing divided by the number that are expected to exist).

``NUM_MISSING_FCST_FILES_MAX``: (Default: 0)
   For verification tasks that need forecast data, this specifies the maximum number of post-processed forecast files that may be missing. If more than this number are missing, the verification task will not be run.

> Coupled AQM Configuration Parameters

Reviewer: Here too, note AQM not supported?

   Save bias-correction airnow training data.
   
``DO_AQM_SAVE_FIRE``: (Default: false)
   Archive fire emission file to HPSS.
   
``DCOMINbio_default``: (Default: "")
   Path to the directory containing AQM bio files.

``DCOMINdust_default``: (Default: "/path/to/dust/dir")
   Path to the directory containing AQM dust file.

``DCOMINcanopy_default``: (Default: "/path/to/canopy/dir")
   Path to the directory containing AQM canopy files.

``DCOMINfire_default``: (Default: "")
   Path to the directory containing AQM fire files.

``DCOMINchem_lbcs_default``: (Default: "")
   Path to the directory containing chemical LBC files.
   
``DCOMINgefs_default``: (Default: "")
   Path to the directory containing GEFS aerosol LBC files.

``DCOMINpt_src_default``: (Default: "/path/to/point/source/base/directory")
   Parent directory containing point source files.

``DCOMINairnow_default``: (Default: "/path/to/airnow/obaservation/data")
   Path to the directory containing AIRNOW observation data.

``COMINbicor``: (Default: "/path/to/historical/airnow/data/dir")
   Path of reading in historical training data for bias correction. 

``COMOUTbicor``: (Default: "/path/to/historical/airnow/data/dir")

>    Path to save the current cycle's model output and AirNow observations as training data for future use. ``$COMINbicor`` and ``$COMOUTbicor`` can be distuigshed by the ``${yyyy}${mm}${dd}`` under the same location.

Reviewer 2: distinguished rather than distuigshed.
